# VenuSqDeco
Basic art deco watchface for the venu square.  
The Garmin Developer documentation isn't great, especially the lack of examples. Using the Garmin Developer Forum, I was able to figure out how to display the data and background. The code likely isn't pretty, but I'm pretty happy with my first watch face. The features I found hardest to implement were:  
* Custom Fonts: To add a custom font, I used BMFont (https://www.angelcode.com/products/bmfont/) to translate ttf font files to fnt files with associated pngs. To do this, first download a font as ttf (I would look here: https://www.dafont.com/). Then, in BMFont, go Options->Font Settings. From here, select the ttf under "add font file" then select that named font from the "Font" dropdown. From this menu you can also choose font size. You can use options->visualize to get a real size view of the font. From the main BMFonts screen, you can also choose which characters will be included in the font. Once satisfied, hit options->save bitmap font as, then save it to a new "fonts" folder in resources. To use the font, you'll need to create the fonts.xml file, create a new item for the new font, and then load that font as a variable. From there, it is easy to use the font whenever writing text.
* Always on Face: As other pages will tell you, you can use the "always on" as long as a) You never have more than 10% of the pixels on in low power mode and b) No pixel is on for more than 3 minutes. As long as you pair down unnecessary items, a is easy. b takes a bit more work. A method that worked well for me was using BMFont to create a font with one character. The BMFont creates a png that the font files reads to picture the character. Edit this png to be just a checkerboard of sufficient size to cover all your active pixels. Also edit the font file to reflect the new size of the one character. Then, write the character to the screen with foreground black and background transparent to black out half your pixels. Next time, write the font one pixel over so that the other half of the pixels are blacked out. In this way, no pixel is on for the entire time.
